Okay, here we want to take a look at the
Chrome developer tools. I'm going to
start up the Spring application and see
it get started pretty quick because we
really don't have much there and I am
going to come over here to Chrome and I'm
already on localhost and hit refresh. We can
see that's refreshing. Okay not much
going on there and what I want to do is take a look at the developer tools. So
inside of Chrome, under the View menu, you
have a tab for developers and
let's take a quick look at the source. So
this is the HTML that was rendered. So
this is a handy thing to do when you are
working on Spring MVC projects. They are
always going to be looking at the actual
HTML that was generated. So you are
working with Thymeleaf templates but you are
going to be passing in data. So you
want to see what's actually getting
rendered to the browser and this is an
important tool to use. The next thing we
want to take a look at is come up to
view in Developer and Developer Tools. Now you can see that's not a lot is going
on. The default, I hit refresh there so
you can see some activity. It defaults
and we are just going to localhost and
we are doing a get method and we are
getting back a status of 200. So it's an
HTTP status code. It's a document and
over here we start seeing some of the
timings of how fast it was coming back.
Now this example is really kind of
boring it does not show us everything
that's going on. What I am going to do is
come up here and we are going to go into
an incognito window and go out to my
website. Now this website is actually
running on WordPress. I mean of course I
could write it in Spring MVC but really
why reinvent the wheel. And what we
want to do is come in here. Let's
take a look at the developer tools on
this. This is going to be much much more
interesting and let's do a refresh there. Now what you can see is my website
actually has a lot of different stuff
going on. It's got different WordPress
plugins, so different style sheets are
coming down, so it needs a different CSS
files, different JavaScript files. So a lot more interesting stuff is
happening here and we can see all these
different requests being made and
actually, this is actually kind of bad
because we should be combining them but
if this was a commercial site for a
major company, I'd definitely be doing
just that. But I'm just going
through here for example of what's
coming through. So the main thing I'll
be looking is I'm looking at different
statuses and we are actually getting like
a post a page speed beacon for some
reason. Not sure what's wrong in that to be
honest. Like here, I'm running sumome.
That was a little pop-up and I was from
sumome. So it's doing a post and getting
back at 200. So we can see different
things happening, we made an
options request. So that's kind of
interesting, so that's a different HTTP
method. So lots going on off my home
page there and we can see over here,
here's like the timing of all the
requests and what's happening and let's
see if we got any chatter and we got a
little chat around the council. The
council is going to be something that
you're going to be utilizing with
JavaScript development and what not but
the main thing that we are going to be
concerned with is the network and seeing
the downloads and the different
components. And when you are doing web
development you are also going to be
looking at different components. So we
can come up here and see the
different components and this is all about
the HTML and you can see how we are going through
the different components that we are
working with, the different div tags and
menu items and things like that. And
another really nice feature inside of
Chrome developer tools, is we can change
to different views. So right now that's
being rendered on an iPad pro. Let's take a look at my site on iphone 5.
A much smaller screen format but you can
see that it's a reactive format. We are
getting different content here. So kind
of nice having it, being able to drill
down to us. So pretty nice tool set. Chrome is probably my favorite to do
web development in and I just want to
give you a good overview of the tool
sets that are available when we are doing
web development with Spring MVC.